[OKTA-702250] Feature Lifecycle Management page (#4680)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/concepts/feature-lifecycle-management/index.md

title: Feature Lifecycle Management
---

# Feature lifecycle management

> This page covers a few key concepts that underpin the [Okta Features API](/docs/reference/api/features/). The Features API allows you to manage self-service features, their feature dependants, and their feature dependencies. For Beta features, special restrictions apply to the behavior of the API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page covers a few key concepts that underpin the [Okta Features API](/docs/reference/api/features/). The Features API allows you to manage self-service features, their feature dependents, and their feature dependencies. For Beta features, special restrictions apply to the behavior of the API.
```

See [Release lifecycle](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/openapi/okta-management/guides/release-lifecycle/).

## Self-service features

> Self-service features are features an Okta admin can directly enable or disable. Features that aren't self-service can only be enabled or disabled by getting in touch with Okta Support. The [Okta Features API](/docs/reference/api/features/) is used to list, enable, and disable self-service features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Self-service features are features that you can directly enable or disable. Contact [Okta Support](https://support.okta.com) to enable features that aren't self-service. The [Okta Features API](/docs/reference/api/features/) is used to list, enable, and disable self-service features.
```

> > **Note:** A Beta feature marked as self-service will stay as self-service, even if it's closed and temporarily unavailable to be enabled. For example, if an [open Beta](#beta-features) transitions into a closed Beta, the feature will remain self-service. This means that it appears in the list of available self-service features, but you can't enable it without contacting Support.

Author: I actually went back and forth on whether this should be present or future tense. I'll try to keep this in mind for the future.

Only Beta and Early Access (EA) features are considered self-service. After a feature transitions from either of these states to Generally Available (GA), it's no longer listed as an available self-service feature.

## Beta features

> Though all available Beta features qualify as "self-service", Betas are either open or closed. You can enable or disable open Betas using the API. But, you can only disable closed Betas. If a feature has dependencies that are in closed Beta, then you can't enable it. If you want to enable a closed Beta, [contact Support](https://support.okta.com). When you enable an open Beta, it triggers an email to the admin who performed the action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though all available Beta features qualify as "self-service," Betas are either open or closed. You can enable or disable open Betas using the API. But, you can only disable closed Betas. If a feature has dependencies that are in closed Beta, then you can't enable it. If you want to enable a closed Beta, [contact Support](https://support.okta.com). When you enable an open Beta, it triggers an email to the admin who performed the action.
```

> **Note:** Beta features are only available in Preview orgs.

## Dependencies and dependants

> Features might have dependencies and dependants. Dependencies are other features that the feature relies on, whereas dependants are features that rely on the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Features might have dependencies and dependents. Dependencies are other features that the feature relies on, whereas dependents are features that rely on the feature.
```

In this example:

* Feature A has three dependencies: Feature B, Feature C, and Feature D.

> * Feature D has one dependant: Feature A.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Feature D has one dependent: Feature A.
```

> If Feature A has Feature B as a dependency, then Feature A can't be enabled if Feature B isn't enabled first. Conversely, Feature B has Feature A as one of its dependants. This means that Feature B can't be disabled unless you disable Feature A first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If Feature A has Feature B as a dependency, then you can't enable Feature A unless you enable Feature B first. Conversely, Feature B has Feature A as one of its dependants. This means that you can't disable Feature B unless you disable Feature A first.
```

> If Feature A has Feature B as a dependency, then you can't enable Feature A unless you enable Feature B first. Conversely, Feature B has Feature A as one of its dependants. This means that you can't disable Feature B unless you disable Feature A first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Feature A has Feature B as a dependency, then you can't enable Feature A unless you enable Feature B first. Conversely, Feature B has Feature A as one of its dependents. This means that you can't disable Feature B unless you disable Feature A first.
```
